---
title: 'Exclusion and the left'
date: '2022-01-27'
excerpt: 'On January 25th, 2022, Doreen Ford, a moderator on the subreddit r/antiwork went on Fox News to talk about the subreddit and the movement.  To put it mildly, it went poorly.'
---

On January 25th, 2022, Doreen Ford, a moderator on the subreddit r/antiwork went on Fox News to talk about the subreddit and the movement.  To put it mildly, it went poorly.  Her appearance was disheveled, she did not have a powerful presence, and she was easily railroaded by the host of the show in verbal jousting.  The fallout was fast and severe.  The subreddit went offline for a day, and she was ousted as a moderator, eight years after founding the subreddit.  The video and drama surrounding it went viral, as people tuned in to participate in the modern stockade.  While I’m sure the right got in some good pot shots, Doreen found no home on the left.  Members of the subreddit, and of new offshoot subreddits began armchair quarterbacking why she was a poor choice of representative for the movement because she’s a dog-walker and works only a few hours, rather than something like a nurse who would have more broad appeal.  People made comments along the lines of “couldn’t she have showered or picked up a little bit?”.  Many people felt that no one should have done any media at all, and apparently there had been a poll establishing that doctrine.

Regardless of how well the interview went, the implosion of the subreddit is emblematic of the problems the left has unifying.  Politics today is simply a nasty business; there’s no way around that.  The right is hateful.  That seems self-evident.  But the left is not a friendly place either.  While white supremacists other alt-right coalitions hate groups of people, the left seems to focus on the individual.  This results in what you might call cancel culture - individuals being investigated and judged by the internet mob - rather than things like institutional exclusion of groups of people.  The right may like to ban books about “gender and/or race” from schools, but the left wants to prevent authors with whom they disagree from speaking at them.  Characters that embrace the right are immune from cancel culture.  Ben Shapiro, Kyle Rittenhouse, Joe Rogan, any prominent republican politician - these people are mobbed up.  They have protection.  They can’t be canceled.  The people whom this individual targeting strategy really ruins are the true leftists, and the left-curious who run afoul of the mob, e.g. Doreen.

If you are in a position of distress and feel that radical action is needed to resolve this distress, but you just don’t know what, you will probably go solicit some opinions.  You might find that the government has been sold to corporations and the way to fix things it to take the capital back on behalf of the people, or you might find that things were actually great until we started tolerating welfare queens and SJWs dictating what acceptable behavior is and the way to fix things is to stop being offended and stop giving handouts.  Either way you look at it, there is something to hate, and something to admire.  The right has the game theoretical advantage of hating the poor, the weak, the huddled masses and loving the successful and powerful.  The right can build up an idol like Elon Musk, as an example, who has built multiple successful companies and regularly dunks on regulators.  Say what you will, but the man is unique.  He is a beacon around which to rally.  So what if his company got subsidized by government incentive programs - he’s just playing the game baby!  Sure he called that guy a pedophile but maybe he was having a bad day, who knows?  Keep an eye on Kyle Rittenhouse.  If he pursues a public life, the right will build a very nice narrative.  His successes are proof that boys will be boys and people deserve to defend themselves freely, or at least that leniency should be shown to good kids like him.  His failures will be chalked up to the media hit job on him.  It’s so sad how they ruined the life of this young man.  When you are in this group, you get love and support from the other members.  It’s a family of sorts.  Compare this to the left.  The left hates power, wealth and privilege.  They love the powerless, poor, and oppressed.  The paradox is once someone gets some renown, they are no longer powerless.  Thus the left distrusts its own members who succeed.  They are “sellouts”, “power hungry” or “not representatives of the movement (anymore)”.  As a PR principle, this is terrible.  Any leftist politician like Bernie or AOC who makes national headlines becomes easy pickings for opposition media to take down a peg.  Bernie has like 3 houses.  Elon may have more but it’s bad when Bernie does it because he could give 2 of those houses to the homeless; is he really walking the walk?  So when someone like Doreen who is so heartbreakingly committed to her ideals gets canceled by their own tribe, I really sympathize with that.  Perhaps mistakes were made - but the movement is about seeing humanity in the working class, understanding that even a dog walker needs to eat, and more than that, to live a fulfilling life.  The broader leftist movement has pillars related to protecting trans and autistic individuals.  This undecided radical sees the two paths, such as they are, and strictly from a recruiting perspective, it’s a lot easier for them to turn right.  

At the end of the day, people want to be supported and celebrated and accepted by their communities.  It was a mistake to go on Fox News, but people make mistakes.  No Fox viewer was going to join r/antiwork, and no r/antiwork member cares what Fox says.  This is a no harm no foul situation, except for the harm that has since been internally inflicted.  For the crime of acting above her station, Doreen is the latest member of her tribe to be excommunicated.  I feel very badly for her and hope that she is able to make peace with this situation someday.

Footnote: There are myriad possibilities for different parts of this from the interview itself to the rabid response, to the new clone subreddits popping up to be somehow funded or operated by groups acting in bad faith.  I have analyzed the situation at face value, but in the midst of something like a false flag operation, it is that much more important to keep peoples’ humanity in mind.  If Doreen’s appearance was sandbagged on purpose and she did sell out her community of eight years (with the effect that Fox viewers would get a bad impression of the anti work movement), then that’s once piece of the establishment down, and the left should be congratulating her for doing her part.
